Personnel Security Policy

Effective Date:  June 4, 2019

1.0        Purpose
==================

In order to create a safe and secure workplace and to ensure that
Archway Health employees are qualified to perform the jobs for which the
organization hires them, the organization will conduct pre-employment
screening, including criminal background checks, drug screening, credit
worthiness and educational checks on all potential new personnel prior
to starting employment.

It is important that the organization’s missions are supported by
qualified employees, in a safe and secure environment for all personnel,
including visitors, clients, and employees.  It is also important that
the organization take meaningful actions to protect its employees,
customers, funds, property, and other assets.

This policy is intended to support the verification of credentials,
criminal history, and other information related to employment decisions
that assist the organization in meeting its commitments.

2.0        Definitions
======================

Definitions are located in the Information Security Program Definitions
document.  

If you do not find a definition for an unfamiliar term referenced within
this document, please contact the Chief Security Officer or her/his
designate for clarification.

3.0        Scope
================

This Policy applies to all potential new employees (whether full-time,
part-time, seasonal, or temporary), affiliates, subsidiaries,
Subcontractors, Service Providers, and any individual or entity that has
access to Information Resources.

Compliance is mandatory.

Personnel who have questions regarding this Policy should consult with
the Chief Security Officer or her/his designate.

4.0  Risk Statement
==================

This Policy is necessary for the consistent processing of new personnel
in order to ensure the new personnel’s fitness for employment.

Without this Policy, the steps required to ensure the fitness for
employment may be applied incorrectly and/or indiscriminately per
individual.

In addition, during the onboarding process, many data elements collected
regarding the potential employee fall under regulatory guidance.  The
steps outlined further in this policy are stated in order to ensure the
steps are performed as necessary with the utmost regard for the
potential new employee’s privacy.

5.0  Requirements
================

Attracts, Develops, and Retains Individual Archway Health provides the
mentoring and training needed to attract, develop, and retain sufficient
and competent personnel and outsourced service providers to support the
achievement of objectives.[[a]](#cmnt1)

Define and clearly communicate to job candidates the relative security
roles and responsibilities of the position during the pre-employment
process. Including any involvement in processing covered information
documented in relevant job descriptions.^[[b]](#cmnt2)^

Terms and conditions of employment

The contractual agreements with employees and contractors shall state
their and the organization’s responsibilities for information
security.^[[c]](#cmnt3)^

Human Resources must have a formal set of pre-employment forms and
requirements that are distributed to all potential new personnel once a
job offer is extended.

The identify of the applicant must be ascertained by passport, and/or
government issued identification in accordance with the requirements of
an I-9 form^[[d]](#cmnt4)^.

Because the pre-employment forms facilitate the collection of personal
information, including credit information, information about education,
certifications, prior employment, background check information and the
testing for drug usage, notice of the collection of the above
information (not an exhaustive list) must be given to the potential new
personnel and the individual must provide a signed acknowledgement and
authorization prior to the collection of the information.

Human Resources shall perform, or contract for the performance of a
comprehensive background check to include the potential new employees’
assertions of previous employment, education, and credentials
earned.^[[e]](#cmnt5)^

In addition, the background check must include a credit check, criminal
background check, drug, and reference checks and shall be proportional
to the business requirements, the classification of the information to
be accessed, and the perceived risks.^[[f]](#cmnt6)^

All offers of employment will be contingent on the satisfactory results
of a background investigation and drug screening.

Upon satisfactory completion of the background checks,

Human Resources will notify the hiring manager of the start date.

The hiring manager will notify IT Support of the start date and the
appropriate role for the individual that encompasses the appropriate
access and privileges the potential new-employee will require to perform
their job.

In addition, the hiring manager must secure any other items such as VPN
access, credit cards, and mobile device(s) as required.

All new personnel must sign the terms and conditions of the employment
contract, which shall include their responsibilities for information
security and include confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements prior
to commencing employment.^[[g]](#cmnt7)^

All new personnel must complete new hire orientation, attend Security
Awareness Education sessions and sign a document stating they understand
the principles of the Security Awareness Education and are aware of any
disciplinary actions that may arise if the employee were to violate the
Information Security Policies of the organization.^[[h]](#cmnt8)^

Annually Managers must evaluate the performance of individuals and teams
against the entity’s expected standards of conduct.^[[i]](#cmnt9)^

Competent personnel with sufficient authority perform control activities
with diligence and continuing focus.^[[j]](#cmnt10)^

Competence As part of the annual review Archway Health shall:

​a) determine the necessary competence of person(s) doing work under its
control that affects its information security performance;

​b) ensure that these persons are competent on the basis of appropriate
education, training, or experience;

​c) where applicable, take actions to acquire the necessary competence,
and evaluate the effectiveness

of the actions taken; and

​d) retain appropriate documented information as evidence of
competence.^[[k]](#cmnt11)^

Uses Knowledgeable Personnel Evaluators performing ongoing and separate
evaluations have sufficient knowledge to understand what is being
evaluated.^[[l]](#cmnt12)^

Segregation of duties Conflicting duties and areas of responsibility
shall be segregated to reduce opportunities for unauthorized or
unintentional modification or misuse of the organization’s
assets.^[[m]](#cmnt13)^

For any questions regarding the Security Program or Security Policies,
please consult with the Chief Security Officer or her/his designate.

Separate Communication Lines Separate communication channels, such as
whistle-blower hotlines, are in place and serve as fail-safe mechanisms
to enable anonymous or confidential communication when normal channels
are inoperative or ineffe^[[n]](#cmnt14)^ctive.

6.0  Management Commitment
=========================

Archway Health is committed to protecting its employees, partners,
clients, Archway Health, and the data Archway Health houses from illegal
or damaging actions by individuals, either knowingly or unknowingly.
 This policy is a tool management uses to demonstrate and carry out its
commitment.^[[o]](#cmnt15)^

7.0  Coordination among Organizational Entities
==============================================

Archway Health wants all organizational entities to cooperate and
coordinate with each other to ensure the effectiveness of the
Information Security Program.

^[[p]](#cmnt16)^

8.0  Compliance
==============

Compliance is mandatory.  Violation of this policy may result in (but is
not limited to) loss of access privileges, termination of employment,
criminal charges and/or other actions, as deemed appropriate by Archway
Health.

^[[q]](#cmnt17)^

9.0  Key Responsibilities
========================

Managers must:

-   Fully support this policy; and

-   Report any policy violations or exception, and follow the exception
    process.

Chief Security Officer must:

-   Jointly maintain this policy with Legal and the Human Resources
    Department;
-   Periodically test the compliance with this policy; and
-   Report any policy violations or exception, and follow the exception
    process.

Employees must:

-   Adhere to this policy;
-   Protect assets from unauthorized access, disclosure, modification,
    destruction or interference;
-   Execute particular security processes or activities;
    and^[[r]](#cmnt18)^
-   Report any policy violations or exception within a timely manner to
    their management and to the Chief Security Officer or her/his
    designate.

Human Resources Department must:

-   Jointly maintain this policy with the Chief Security Officer.

10.0 Disciplinary Actions
========================

Violations of the Security Policies (without prior written approval from
the Chief Security Officer or her/his designate) will result in
appropriate disciplinary action.  This may include, but is not limited
to, employment termination and legal recourse against any person or
entity whose action(s) directly or indirectly violate these policies, in
accordance with applicable law.

^[[s]](#cmnt19)^

11. Regulatory and Standards Compliance {#h.1fob9te style="display:inline"}
=======================================

This policy complies with ISO 27001:2013, 2017 Trust Services Criteria
for SOC 2, GDPR, HITRUST v9.2, NIST SP 800-53, and MA 201 C.M.R 17.00 et
seq.

Approved by:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Name of person functioning as the

Chief Security Officer

Revision History

+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
| Date               | Revision           | Revised by         | Nature of Change   |
+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
| 06/04/2019         | 1.0                | Keith S. Crumpton  | Created document   |
+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+

Security Policy 8      CONFIDENTIAL                                                          

[[a]](#cmnt_ref1)CC1.4

[[b]](#cmnt_ref2)HITRUST 02.a

[[c]](#cmnt_ref3)CC2.3, AC-20, PL-4, PS-6, PS-7, ISO A7.1.2

[[d]](#cmnt_ref4)HITRUST 02.c

[[e]](#cmnt_ref5)ISO 7.1.1, PS-3, HITRUST 02.b

[[f]](#cmnt_ref6)ISO A7.1.1, PS-3, HITRUST 02.b

[[g]](#cmnt_ref7)PL-4, PS-6, SA-9, HITRUST 02.c

[[h]](#cmnt_ref8)ISO A7.2.2, At-2, AT-3, IR-2

[[i]](#cmnt_ref9)CC1.1

[[j]](#cmnt_ref10)Cc5.3

[[k]](#cmnt_ref11)PS-1, PS-3, CC1.4, ISO 7.2

[[l]](#cmnt_ref12)CC4.1

[[m]](#cmnt_ref13)A.6.1.2, AC-5, CC5.1

[[n]](#cmnt_ref14)ISOA16.13, PL-4, SI-2, SI-4, SI-5

[[o]](#cmnt_ref15)AC-1(a)(1)[1][e]

[[p]](#cmnt_ref16)AC-1(a)(1)[1][f]

[[q]](#cmnt_ref17)AC-1(a)(1)[1][g]

[[r]](#cmnt_ref18)HITRUST 02.a

[[s]](#cmnt_ref19)AC-1(a)(1)[1][f]
